In mathematics and computer science, dynamic programming is a method of solving problems that exhibit the properties of overlapping subproblems and optimal substructure (described below). The method takes much less time than naive methods.
The term was originally used in the 1940s by Richard Bellman to describe the process of solving problems where one needs to find the best decisions one after another. By 1953, he had refined this to the modern meaning. The field was founded as a systems analysis and engineering topic that is recognized by the IEEE. Bellman's contribution is remembered in the name of the Bellman equation, a central result of dynamic programming which restates an optimization problem in recursive form.
The word "programming" in "dynamic programming" has no particular connection to computer programming at all, and instead comes from the term "mathematical programming", a synonym for optimization. Thus, the "program" is the optimal plan for action that is produced. For instance, a finalized schedule of events at an exhibition is sometimes called a program. Programming, in this sense, means finding an acceptable plan of action, an algorithm.
Optimal substructure means that optimal solutions of subproblems can be used to find the optimal solutions of the overall problem. For example, the shortest path to a goal from a vertex in a graph can be found by first computing the shortest path to the goal from all adjacent vertices, and then using this to pick the best overall path, as shown in Figure 1. In general, we can solve a problem with optimal substructure using a three-step process:
   1. Break the problem into smaller subproblems.
   2. Solve these problems optimally using this three-step process recursively.
   3. Use these optimal solutions to construct an optimal solution for the original problem.
The subproblems are, themselves, solved by dividing them into sub-subproblems, and so on, until we reach some simple case that is solvable in constant time.
Figure 2. The subproblem graph for the Fibonacci sequence. That it is not a tree but a DAG indicates overlapping subproblems.
To say that a problem has overlapping subproblems is to say that the same subproblems are used to solve many different larger problems. For example, in the Fibonacci sequence, F3 = F1 + F2 and F4 = F2 + F3 — computing each number involves computing F2. Because both F3 and F4 are needed to compute F5, a naive approach to computing F5 may end up computing F2 twice or more. This applies whenever overlapping subproblems are present: a naive approach may waste time recomputing optimal solutions to subproblems it has already solved.
In order to avoid this, we instead save the solutions to problems we have already solved. Then, if we need to solve the same problem later, we can retrieve and reuse our already-computed solution. This approach is called memoization (not memorization, although this term also fits). If we are sure we won't need a particular solution anymore, we can throw it away to save space. In some cases, we can even compute the solutions to subproblems we know that we'll need in advance.
In probability theory, Bayes' theorem (often called Bayes' law after Rev Thomas Bayes) relates the conditional and marginal probabilities of two random events. It is often used to compute posterior probabilities given observations. For example, a patient may be observed to have certain symptoms. Bayes' theorem can be used to compute the probability that a proposed diagnosis is correct, given that observation. (See example 2)
As a formal theorem, Bayes' theorem is valid in all common interpretations of probability. However, it plays a central role in the debate around the foundations of statistics: frequentist and Bayesian interpretations disagree about the ways in which probabilities should be assigned in applications. Frequentists assign probabilities to random events according to their frequencies of occurrence or to subsets of populations as proportions of the whole, while Bayesians describe probabilities in terms of beliefs and degrees of uncertainty. The articles on Bayesian probability and frequentist probability discuss these debates in greater detail.
Bayes' theorem relates the conditional and marginal probabilities of events A and B, where B has a non-vanishing probability:
    P(A|B) = \frac{P(B | A)\, P(A)}{P(B)}.
Each term in Bayes' theorem has a conventional name:
    * P(A) is the prior probability or marginal probability of A. It is "prior" in the sense that it does not take into account any information about B.
    * P(A|B) is the conditional probability of A, given B. It is also called the posterior probability because it is derived from or depends upon the specified value of B.
    * P(B|A) is the conditional probability of B given A.
    * P(B) is the prior or marginal probability of B, and acts as a normalizing constant.
Intuitively, Bayes' theorem in this form describes the way in which one's beliefs about observing 'A' are updated by having observed 'B'.The representation of a set of documents as vectors in a common vector space is known as the vector space vector space model and is fundamental to a host of information retrieval (IR) operations including scoring documents on a query, document classification, and document clustering.We first develop the basic ideas underlying vector space scoring; a pivotal step in this development is the view of queries as vectors in the same vector space as the document collection. In mathematics and computer science, dynamic programming is a method of solving problems that exhibit the properties of overlapping sub problems and optimal substructure. The term was originally used in the 1940s by Richard Bellman to describe the process of solving problems where one needs to find the best decisions one after another. By 1953, he had refined this to the modern meaning. Bellman's contribution is remembered in the name of the Bellman equation, a central result of dynamic programming which restates an optimization problem in recursive form. The word "programming" in "dynamic programming" has no particular connection to computer programming at all, and instead comes from the term "mathematical programming", a synonym for optimization. Thus, the "program" is the optimal plan for action that is produced. For instance, a finalized schedule of events at an exhibition is sometimes called a program. Programming, in this sense, means finding an acceptable plan of action, an algorithm.
Dynamic programming usually takes one of two approaches, the top-down approach, the problem is broken into sub problems, and these sub problems are solved and the solutions remembered, in case they need to be solved again. This is recursion and memorization combined together and the bottom-up approach, all sub problems that might be needed are solved in advance and then used to build up solutions to larger problems. This approach is slightly better in stack space and number of function calls, but it is sometimes not intuitive to figure out all the sub problems needed for solving the given problem.
Some programming languages can automatically memorize the result of a function call with a particular set of arguments, in order to speed up call-by-name. Some languages make it possible portably (e.g. Scheme, Common Lisp or Perl), some need special extensions.This is only possible for a referentially transparent function.
nformation retrieval (IR) is the science of searching for documents, for information within documents and for metadata about documents, as well as that of searching relational databases and the World Wide Web. IR is interdisciplinary, based on computer science, mathematics, library science, information science, information architecture, cognitive psychology, linguistics, statistics and physics. There is overlap in the usage of the terms data retrieval, document retrieval, information retrieval, and text retrieval, but each also has its own body of literature, theory, praxis and technologies. 
Automated information retrieval systems are used to reduce what has been called "information overload". Many universities and public libraries use IR systems to provide access to books, journals and other documents. 
